# Overview
The terms REST and RESTful spark in the mind varying definitions for everyone who reads them. The following definitions are provided to avoid confusion.  These definitions may, or may not, comport with the canonical definition of REST, let alone even begin to argue what that concept is.  The purpose served here is to remove any uncertainty for users of this particular API. 

# Resource Operations
The only goal is to achieve consistent use within the protocol definition here. To aid in this consistency, especially with regard to related projects, this API supports the resource operation definitions described in the [Kubernetes API Specification](https://kubernetes.io/docs/api-reference/v1.7/#resource-operations).  

This simple approach uses a functional mapping between the standard Create, Read, Update, and Delete (CRUD) operations and HTTP methods.  The functional mapping of resource operations to HTTP verbs is defined as follows:
* Create - POST
* Read - GET
* Update - PUT (replace in whole) or PATCH (update in part)
* Delete - DELETE

In addition, the API supports all the standard protocol conventions with respect to the idempotency of actions related to HTTP Requests and caching of HTTP Responses. 

# API Specification
The API Specification for the project's master branch is available here: [Swagger Spec Viewer](http://swagger.goa.design/?url=samsung-cnct%2Fkrak8s%2Fdesign)

Alternately: if you prefer, here is the link to the [Swagger.io Editor](https://editor.swagger.io/?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/samsung-cnct/krak8s/master/swagger/swagger.json#) to view the raw JSON and API side by side.

**IMPORTANT NOTE:** The only authoritative definition of the resources and endpoints defined for any instance of the API, as well as the methods that are supported for a given resource, is the OpenAPI (aka Swagger 2.0) definition generated by the running API Server itself.  The API Specification link above is provided for convenience, but it is the representation of the API design that is accessible on the master branch of this online repository **only**.

## Resources 
In an effort to keep this project as DRY as possible, the following is minimalist description of the resources defined for the interface.

The following are the major categories of resources administered by the API.

* OpenAPI - The OpenAPI (Swagger 2.0) specification for this interface
* Swagger - The Swagger 2.0 (OpenAPI) specification for this interface
* Projects Collection - The primary unit of isolation for users, tennant, teams, etc... 
  * Namespaces Collection - The project's namespace(s), e.g. "proj-dev", "prog-test", "prog-prod" 
    * Chart - The namespace's Helm installed entities (charts)
    * Cluster - The namespace's Kraken orchestrated Kubernetes cluster resources 
    * MongoDB Replica Set - The namespace's MongoDB Replica Set
 
